**Project Name**: Evaluation of Methods of Sperm Whale Acoustic Detection

**Date created**: February 19, 2026

**Created by**: Christine Clarke

**Summary**:

This repository is for evaluation of different methods for acoustic detection of sperm whale presence. This evaluation contributes to a report for Fisheries and Oceans Canada (Feasibility of Methods for Effective Detection and Classification of Sperm Whale Clicks in Large Passive Acoustic Monitoring Datasets) and well as research for the PhD thesis of Christine Clarke.

**File structure**:

Directories are named with number prefixes according to their order in the workflow.
- *00_rawdata*: Contains .csv files with the outcome of literature review. Sample audio files used for method evaluation are house externally to the repository.
- *01_scripts*: Contains all scripts used for manipulation, analysis and visualization of the data. Scripts are named with number prefixes according to their order in the workflow. 'Functions' sub-directory contains functions that are called by scripts in the main scripts directory.
- *02_outdata*: Contains all intermediate and final data outputs of the scripts.
- *03_figures*: Contains all maps and figures generated by the scripts.

**Script approach**

Scripts in this repository generally...
- Use the R program
- Use tidyverse packages for data manipulation
- Use ggplot2 package for plotting
- Use %>% for pipes

**Software and Package Version Manangement**

This repository uses the renv package for package version management. 
To replicate the environment used for this analysis, call renv::restore() to reinstall the specific package versions used (recorded in the renv.lock file).
